# The product list component

##### Now that we have our top-level application component, let’s write the ProductsList-Component , which will render a list of product rows.

##### We want to allow the user to select one Product and we want to keep track of which Product is the currently selected one. The ProductsListComponent is a great place to do this because it “knows” all of the Product s at the same time.

##### Let’s write the ProductsListComponent in three steps:

• Configuring the ProductsListComponent @Component options
• Writing the ProductsListComponent controller class
• Writing the ProductsListComponent view template

### Configuring the ProcuctsListComponent @Component Options

### product-list.component.ts:

import { Component, EventEmitter, Input, Output } from "@angular/core";
import { Product } from "../product.model";

/\*\*

- @ProductsList: A component for rendering all ProductRows and
- storing the currently selected Product
  \*/
  @Component({
  selector: "products-list",
  templateUrl: "./products-list.component.html"
  })
  export class ProductsListComponent {
  <!-- // @input productList - the Product[] passed to us -->

@Input() productList: Product[];

<!-- // @output onProductSelected - outputs the current Product whenever a new Product is selected -->

@Output() onProductSelected: EventEmitter<Product>;

##### We start our ProductsListComponent with a familiar option: selector . This selector means we can place our ProductsListComponent with the tag <products-list>. We’ve also defined two properties productList and onProductSelected . Notice that productList has a @Input()annotation, denoting that it is an input and onProductSelected has an @Output() annotation, denoting that it is an output.

### Component inputs

Inputs specify the parameters we expect our component to receive. To designate an input, we use the @Input() decoration on a component class property.

##### When we specify that a Component takes an input, it is expected that the definition class will have an instance variable that will receive the value. For example, say we have the following code:

import { Component, Input } from '@angular/core';
@Component({
selector: 'my-component',
})
class MyComponent {
@Input() name: string;
@Input() age: number;
}

##### The name and age inputs map to the name and age properties on instances of the MyComponent class.

#### If we need to use two different names for the attribute and the property, we could for example write @Input('firstname') name: String;. But the Angular Style Guide36 suggests to avoid this.

##### If we want to use MyComponent from another template, we write something like: <my-component [name]="myName" [age]="myAge"></my-component>.

##### Notice that the attribute name matches the input name, which in turn matches the MyComponent property name. However, these don’t always have to match.

##### For instance, say we wanted our attribute key and instance property to differ. That is, we want to use our component like this:

<my-component [shortName]="myName" [oldAge]="myAge"></my-component>

##### To do this, we would change the format of the string in the inputs option:

@Component({
selector: 'my-component'
})
class MyComponent {
@Input('shortName') name: string;
@Input('oldAge') age: number;
}

• The property name ( name , age ) represent how that incoming property will be
visible (“bound”) in the controller.
• The @Input argument ( shortName , oldAge ) configures how the property is
visible to the “outside world”.

### Passing products through via the inputs

If you recall, in our AppComponent , we passed products to our products-list via the [productList] input:

### app.component.html:

<div class="inventory-app">
  <products-list
    [productList]="products"
    (onProductSelected)="productWasSelected($event)"
  >
  </products-list>
</div>

### Component outputs

##### When you want to send data from your component to the outside world, you use output bindings.

##### Let’s say a component we’re writing has a button and we need to do something when that button is clicked.

##### The way to do this is by binding the click output of the button to a method declared on our component’s controller. You do that using the (output)="action" notation.

##### Here’s an example where we keep a counter and increment (or decrement) based on which button is pressed:

# @Component ({

    selector: 'counter',
    template: `
    {{ value }}
    <button (click)="increase()">Incr</button>
    <button (click)="decrease()">Decr</button>
    `

})
class Counter {
value: number;
}
constructor() {
this.value = 1;
}
increase() {
this.value = this.value + 1;
return false;
}
decrease() {
this.value = this.value -1;
return false;
}
}

##### In this example we’re saying that every time the first button is clicked, we want the increase() method on our controller to be invoked. And, similarly, when the second button is clicked, we want to call the decrease() method.

##### The parentheses attribute syntax looks like this: (output)="action" . In this case, the output we’re listening for is the click event on this button. There are many other built-in events we can listen to such as: mousedown , mousemove , dbl-click , etc.

##### In this example, the event is internal to the component. That is, calling increase() increments this.value , but there’s no effect that leaves this component. When creating our own components we can also expose “public events” (component outputs) that allow the component to talk to the outside world.

##### The key thing to understand here is that in a view, we can listen to an event by using the (output)="action" syntax.
