# The ProductRowComponent Component

##### Our ProductRowComponent displays our Product . ProductRowComponent will have its own template, but will also be split up into three smaller Components:

• ProductImageComponent - for the image
• ProductDepartmentComponent - for the department “breadcrumbs”
• PriceDisplayComponent - for showing the product’s price

##### Let’s take a look at the ProductRowComponent ’s Component configuration, definition class, and template:

# Product row component Configuration

##### The Product row component covers a lot idea

### procuct-row.component.ts:

import { Component, Input, HostBinding } from "@angular/core";
import { Product } from "../product.model";

<!-- // @ProductRow: A component for the view of single Product -->

@Component({
selector: "product-row",
templateUrl: "./product-row.component.html"
})
export class ProductRowComponent {
@Input() product: Product;
@HostBinding("attr.class") cssClass = "item";
}

##### We start by defining the selector of product-row . We’ve seen this several times now - this defines that this component will match the tag product-row .

##### Next we define that this row takes an @Input of product . This instance variable will be set to the Product that was passed in from our parent Component.

##### The HostBinding decoration is new - it lets us set attributes on the host element. The host is the element this component is attached to.

##### In this case, we’re using the Semantic UI item class38. Here when we say @HostBinding('attr.class') cssClass = 'item'; we’re saying that we want to attach the CSS class item to the host element.

#### Using host is nice because it means we can configure our host element from within the component. This is great because otherwise we’d require the host element to specify the CSS tag and that is bad because we would then make assigning a CSS class part of the requirement to using the Component.

##### Instead of putting a long template string in our TypeScript file, instead we’re going to move the template to a separate HTML file and use a templateUrl to load it. We’ll talk about the template in a minute.

## ProductRowComponent template

### product-row.component.html:

<product-image [product]="product"></product-image>

<div class="content">
  <div class="header">{{ product.name }}</div>
  <div class="meta">
    <div class="product-sku">SKU #{{ product.sku }}</div>
  </div>
  <div class="description">
    <product-department [product]="product"></product-department>
  </div>
</div>
<price-display [price]="product.price"></price-display>

##### In the first line we use our product-image directive and we pass our product to the product input of the ProductImageComponent . We use the Product-department directive in the same way.

##### We use the price-display directive slightly differently in that we pass the product.price , instead of the product directly.

##### The rest of the template is standard HTML elements with custom CSS classes and some template bindings.

##### Now let’s talk about the three components we used in this template. They’re relatively short.
