# NgModule and Booting the App

##### The final thin we have to do is ensure we have a NgModule for this app and boot it up:

### app.module.ts:

import { BrowserModule } from "@angular/platform-browser";
import { NgModule } from "@angular/core";
import { FormsModule } from "@angular/forms";

import { AppComponent } from "./app.component";
import { ProductImageComponent } from "./product-image/product-image.component";
import { ProductDepartmentComponent } from "./product-department/product-department.component";
import { PriceDisplayComponent } from "./price-display/price-display.component";
import { ProductRowComponent } from "./product-row/product-row.component";
import { ProductsListComponent } from "./products-list/products-list.component";

@NgModule({
declarations: [
AppComponent,
ProductImageComponent,
ProductDepartmentComponent,
PriceDisplayComponent,
ProductRowComponent,
ProductsListComponent
],
imports: [BrowserModule, FormsModule],
providers: [],
bootstrap: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule {}

##### Angular provides a module system that helps organize our code. Unlike AngularJS 1.x, where all directives are essentially globals, in Angular you must specify exactly which components you’re going to be using in your app.

##### While it is a bit more configuration to do it this way, it’s a lifesaver for larger apps.

##### When you create new components in Angular, in order to use them they must be accessible from the current module. That is, if we want to use the ProductsListComponent component with the products-list selector in the AppComponent template, then we need to make sure that the AppComponent ’s module either:

1. is in the same module as the ProductsListComponent component or
2. The AppComponent ’s module imports the module that contains ProductsList-Component

#### Remember every component you write must be declared in one NgModule before it can be used in a template.

##### In this case, we’re putting AppComponent , ProductsListComponent , and all the other components for this app in one module. This is easy and it means they can all “see” each other.

##### Notice that we tell NgModule that we want to bootstrap with AppComponent . This says that AppComponent will be the top-level component.

##### Because we are writing a browser app, we also put BrowserModule in the imports of the NgModule.

## Booting the app

##### To bootstrap this app we write this in our main.ts:

### main.ts:

import { enableProdMode } from '@angular/core';
import { platformBrowserDynamic } from '@angular/platform-browser-dynamic';

import { AppModule } from './app/app.module';
import { environment } from './environments/environment';

if (environment.production) {
enableProdMode();
}

platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule);

##### The last line in this file is what boots our AppModule and subsequently boots our Angular app.

##### Because this app was written with angular-cli , we can use the ng tool to run the app by running ng serve .

##### That said, it can be tricky to understand what’s going on there. When we run our app with ng serve this is what happens:

• ng serve looks at .angular-cli.json which specifies main.ts as our entry point (and index.html as our index file)
• main.ts bootstraps AppModule
• AppModule specifies that AppComponent is the top level component
• ... and then AppComponent renders the rest of our app!
