# Component Decorator '@Component'

The @Component is called a decorator. It adds metadata to the class that follows it ( AppComponent ). The Component decorator specifies:
• a selector , which tells Angular what element to match
• a template , which defines the view

The Component controller is defined by a class , the AppComponent class, in this case.

##### The @Component decorator is where you configure your component. One of the primary roles of the @Component decorator is to configure how the outside world will interact with your component.

Let’s take a look into each basis part now in more detail.

# Component selector:

With the selector key, you indicate how your component will be recognized when used in a template. The idea is similar to CSS or XPath selectors. The selector is a
way to define what elements in the HTML will match this component. In this case, by saying selector: 'inventory-app-root' , we’re saying that in our HTML we want to match the inventory-app-root tag, that is, we’re defining a new tag that has new functionality whenever we use it. E.g. when we put this in our HTML:

<inventory-app-root></inventory-app-root>

Angular will use the AppComponent component to implement the functionality.

# Component template:

##### The view is the visual part of the component. By using the template option on @Component , we declare the HTML template that the component will use:

@Component({
selector: 'inventory-app-root',
template: `

<div class="inventory-app">
(Products will go here)
</div>
`
})

##### For the template above, notice that we’re using TypeScript’s backtick multi-line string syntax. Our template so far is pretty sparse: just a div with some placeholder text.

##### We can also move our template out to a separate file and use templateUrl instead:

@Component({
selector: 'inventory-app-root', <!-- by the selector we are showing the name of template the body will be displayed-->
templateUrl: './app.component.html' <!-- The templateurl will show to component from wher to tqke the body of application -->
})
export class AppComponent {

<!-- Inventory logic here -->

}

##### And the App.component.html - template looks like below:

<div class="inventory-app">
<!-- // The explanation of these products will come later i description files. -->
  <products-list
    [productList]="products"
    (onProductSelected)="productWasSelected($event)"
  >
  </products-list>
</div>
