# Listing products using <products-list>

##### Now that we have our top-level AppComponent component, we need to add a new component for rendering a list of products. In the next section we’ll create the implementation of a ProductsList component that matches the selector products list . Before we dive into the implementation details, here’s how we will use this new component in our template:

### app.component.html: - Inputs and outputs:

<div class="inventory-app">
  <!-- input -->
  <products-list
    [productList]="products"
    (onProductSelected)="productWasSelected($event)"
  >
    <!-- output -->
  </products-list>
</div>

##### The [squareBrackets] pass inputs and the (parentheses) handle outputs.

##### Data flows in to your component via input bindings and events flow out of your component through output bindings.

##### Think of the set of input + output bindings as defining the public API of your component.

## [squareBrackets] pass inputs

##### In Angular, you pass data into child components via inputs.

##### In our code where we show:

<products-list
[productList]="products"

##### We’re using an input of the ProductList component.

##### To understand where products / productList are coming from. There are two sides to this attribute:

• [productList] (the left-hand side) and
• "products" (the right-hand side)

###### The left-hand side [productList] says we want to use the productList input of the products-list component (we’ll show how to define that in a moment).

##### The right-hand side "products" says that we want to send the value of the expression products . That is, the array this.products in the AppComponent class.

#### How would we know that productList is a valid input to the products-list component?

#### The answer is: you’d read the docs for that component. The inputs (and outputs ) are part of the “public API” of a component.

#### You’d know the inputs for a component that you’re using in the same way that you’d know what the arguments are for a function that you’re using.

#### That said, we’ll define the products-list component in a moment, and we’ll see exactly how the productList input is defined.

## (parens) handle outputs

##### In Angular, you send data out of components via outputs. In our code where we show:

<products-list
...
(onProductSelected)="productWasSelected(\$event)">

##### We’re saying that we want to listen to the onProductSelected output from the ProductsList component. That is:

• (onProductSelected) , the left-hand side is the name of the output we want to
“listen” on
• "productWasSelected" , the right-hand side is the function we want to call
when something new is sent to this output
• \$event is a special variable here that represents the thing emitted on (i.e. sent
to) the output.

##### Now, we haven’t talked about how to define inputs or outputs on our own components yet, but we will shortly when we define the ProductsList component. For now, know that we can pass data to child components through inputs (like “arguments” to a function) and we can receive data out of a child component through outputs (sort of like “return values” from a function).

### Full AppComponent Listing

##### We broke the AppComponent up into several chunks above. So that we can see the whole thing together, here’s the full code listing of our AppComponent:

### app.component.ts - full:

import { Component, EventEmitter } from "@angular/core";

import { Product } from "./product.model";

<!-- // @InventoryApp: the top-level component for our application -->

@Component({
selector: "inventory-app-root",
templateUrl: "./app.component.html"
})
export class AppComponent {
products: Product[];

constructor() {
this.products = [
new Product(
"MYSHOES",
"Black Running Shoes",
"/assets/images/products/black-shoes.jpg",
["Men", "Shoes", "Running Shoes"],
109.99
),
new Product(
"NEATOJACKET",
"Blue Jacket",
"/assets/images/products/blue-jacket.jpg",
["Women", "Apparel", "Jackets & Vests"],
238.99
),
new Product(
"NICEHAT",
"A Nice Black Hat",
"/assets/images/products/black-hat.jpg",
["Men", "Accessories", "Hats"],
29.99
)
];
}

productWasSelected(product: Product): void {
console.log("Product clicked: ", product);
}
}

### app.component.html - full:

<div class="inventory-app">
  <!-- input -->
  <products-list
    [productList]="products"
    (onProductSelected)="productWasSelected($event)"
  >
    <!-- output -->
  </products-list>
</div>
